# CSS Interview Questions

> Good answers to questions about HTML are on the website for [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/).

What is CSS selector specificity and how does it work?

> I tend not to write CSS selectors much more complicated than `.className p` or `#id a`.    I would have to look up how more complicated selectors work (and would probably replace them with simpler selectors that were easier to understand.

What's the difference between "resetting" and "normalizing" CSS? Which would you choose, and why?

Describe floats and how they work.

> Floats position elements relatively on a page, aligning them to the left or the right with respect to surrounding elements. Text will flow around in-line floats.  Floats can be cleared (e.g., before a heading) with the CSS `clear: both` attribute.

Describe z-index and how stacking context is formed.

> The z-index determines what content is on top when several elements on a page overlap.

Describe BFC (Block Formatting Context) and how it works.

> The BFC handles the placement of elements on a page.  It takes into account things like absolute vs. relative positioning, floats, in-line blocks, table elements, and overflows.

What are the various clearing techniques and which is appropriate for what context?

> `style="clear: both;"` works for floats.  `overflow: hidden` works for overflowing content.

Explain CSS sprites, and how you would implement them on a page or site.

> I don't know what these are.

How would you approach fixing browser-specific styling issues?

> Either I use browser-specific CSS attributes or I have an onload function change the classes of elements to match the user's browser.

How do you serve your pages for feature-constrained browsers? What techniques/processes do you use?

> This is not something I have worried about.  My primary web-based application, the Formula Forge add-in for Microsoft Excel, requires browsers capable of handling Excel for the Web.

What are the different ways to visually hide content (and make it available only for screen readers)?

> `display: none` hides content without taking up any space.  `visibility: hidden` hides content, but reserves space for it.  `width: 0; height: 0; overflow: hidden` hides content in a zero-size box.

Have you ever used a grid system, and if so, what do you prefer?

Have you used or implemented media queries or mobile specific layouts/CSS?

> No

Are you familiar with styling SVG?

> Yes.  My Formula Forge application uses SVG to draw diagrams with labels in various colors.

Can you give an example of an @media property other than screen?

> "@media" print

What are some of the "gotchas" for writing efficient CSS?

> I don't know.  I don't write CSS that's so complicated I have to worry about efficiency.

What are the advantages/disadvantages of using CSS preprocessors?

> CSS extensions like Less and Sass allow you to split CSS into separate files and to use variables.  However, they require translation into CSS and they introduce another level of complexity and their use may require maintenance as their definitions evolve.

Describe what you like and dislike about the CSS preprocessors you have used.

> I liked the ability to use variables, but found it more difficult to debug the CSS generated by the preprocessor.

How would you implement a web design comp that uses non-standard fonts?

> What's a "web design comp"?  I've had experience with non-standard fonts in TeX and Metafont, would look to them for guidance on how to use nonstandard fonts in a web page.

Explain how a browser determines what elements match a CSS selector.

Describe pseudo-elements and discuss what they are used for.

> I've used :before and :after to draw triangles in menu items to indicate that they lead to submenus.

Explain your understanding of the box model and how you would tell the browser in CSS to render your layout in different box models.

> My web pages make heavy use of the box model to set the sizes, borders, background colors, margins, padding, and positions of HTML elements.

What does `*{ box-sizing: border-box; }` do? What are its advantages?

> I need to look this one up.

What is the CSS display property and can you give a few examples of its use?

> The CSS display property tells browsers how to display a block.  Some possibilities are inline (via inline), visible (via block), and invisible (via none).

What's the difference between inline and inline-block?

What's the difference between a relative, fixed, absolute and statically positioned element?

> Relative elements flow into the page.  Absolute elements are displayed at fixed locations, indicated by their top and left offsets relative to their enclosing elements.  Would have to look up how fixed and static positioning differ from absolute positioning.

What existing CSS frameworks have you used locally, or in production? How would you change/improve them?

> Just those that come with Angular.  I prefer working with vanilla flavored CSS, though I would appreciate being able to split my CSS into separate files.

Have you played around with the new CSS Flexbox or Grid specs?

> Yes, but I find that floats work better for me.

Can you explain the difference between coding a web site to be responsive versus using a mobile-first strategy?

> No

How is responsive design different from adaptive design?

> Responsive design customizes a page's appearance to the device on which it is viewed.  I'm not familiar with adaptive design as a separate technology.

Have you ever worked with retina graphics? If so, when and what techniques did you use?

> No

Is there any reason you'd want to use translate() instead of absolute positioning, or vice-versa? And why?
